[**Can Twitter Predict the 2020 Election?**]

In this lab, I utilized RStudio's Rtweet function to grab thousands of geotagged tweets (tweets that contain associated lat/long coordinates) containing the hashtags #trump2020 and #biden2020. After the code was run multiple times, the data was compiled into two excel .csv files, one for #trump2020 and one for #biden2020. RStudio was also used to grab state boundaries and census data for comparison. The data was then uploaded into QGIS 3.10, and shares for tweets in support of a particular candidate were created by dividing a state's total "supportive" tweets by the total number of 'supportive" tweets in the continental U.s. The same was done for each candidate; the shares were then subtracted from one another such that a value greater than 0 corresponded to supporting Donald Trump, and a value less than 0 corresponded to supporting Joe Biden. The overall values ranged from -0.043 to +0.078; any values from -0.002 to +0.002 were considered a "toss-up." Maps were also created to show the outcomes of the 2008, 2012, and 2016 elections in addition to a "personal prediction" map based on previous voting records and current trends. The data for this project was obtained from the census data (tidycensus) and Twitter using RStudio's rtweet function; all the analyses were generated in QGIS. (The front-end image of Trump and Biden was obtained from theamericanonews.com)

A TileMap was also created to show a different view of what Twitter had predicted for the 2020 Presidential Election in addition to hexagonal density maps of Twitter support. An interactive webmap of the Twitter Prediction map is below in addition to an animated GIF showing the past 3 Presidential election in addition to my personal prediction for 2020.

Of course, this map should be considered non-scientific as the geotagged tweets are not fully representative of a state's likely electoral outcome, but it was an interesting idea to use Twitter to gage political interest/enthusiasm for each of the candidates to see what the output would be; only in November of 2020 will the full results be known! 

<a href="/pdf/NickGiro_Project2.pdf">2020election_pdf</a>

<a href="/pdf/NickGiro_ProjectFinal.pdf">2020tilemap_pdf</a>

https://ngiro1.github.io/qgis2web_2020_05_13-20_41_49_266256/index.html#5/38.891/-96.218

https://github.com/ngiro1/ngiro1.github.io/blob/master/ElectionsGIF.gif
